README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pulp-platform/common_cells.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pulp-platform/common_cells)

# Common Cells Repository

Maintainer: Florian Zaruba <zarubaf@iis.ee.ethz.ch>

This repository contains commonly used cells and headers for use in various projects.

## Cell Contents

This repository currently contains the following cells, ordered by categories.
Please note that cells with status *deprecated* are not to be used for new designs and only serve to provide compatibility with old code.

### Clocks and Resets

|           Name          |                     Description                     |    Status    | Superseded By |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|
| `clk_div`               | Clock divider with integer divisor                  | active       |               |
| `clock_divider`         | Clock divider with configuration registers          | *deprecated* | `clk_div`     |
| `clock_divider_counter` | Clock divider using a counter                       | *deprecated* | `clk_div`     |
| `rstgen`                | Reset synchronizer                                  | active       |               |
| `rstgen_bypass`         | Reset synchronizer with dedicated test reset bypass | active       |               |

### Clock Domains and Asynchronous Crossings

|         Name         |                                   Description                                    |    Status    | Superseded By |
|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|
| `cdc_2phase`         | Clock domain crossing using two-phase handshake, with ready/valid interface      | active       |               |
| `cdc_fifo_2phase`    | Clock domain crossing FIFO using two-phase handshake, with ready/valid interface | active       |               |
| `cdc_fifo_gray`      | Clock domain crossing FIFO using a gray-counter, with ready/valid interface      | active       |               |
| `edge_detect`        | Rising/falling edge detector                                                     | active       |               |
| `edge_propagator`    | **ANTONIO ADD DESCRIPTION**                                                      | active       |               |
| `edge_propagator_rx` | **ANTONIO ADD DESCRIPTION**                                                      | active       |               |
| `edge_propagator_tx` | **ANTONIO ADD DESCRIPTION**                                                      | active       |               |
| `pulp_sync`          | Serial line synchronizer                                                         | *deprecated* | `sync`        |
| `pulp_sync_wedge`    | Serial line synchronizer with edge detector                                      | *deprecated* | `sync_wedge`  |
| `serial_deglitch`    | Serial line deglitcher                                                           | active       |               |
| `sync`               | Serial line synchronizer                                                         | active       |               |
| `sync_wedge`         | Serial line synchronizer with edge detector                                      | active       |               |

### Counters and Shift Registers

|         Name        |                   Description                                     |    Status    | Superseded By |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|
| `counter`           | Generic up/down counter with overflow detection                   | active       |               |
| `delta_counter`     | Up/down counter with variable delta and overflow detection        | active       |               |
| `generic_LFSR_8bit` | 8-bit linear feedback shift register (LFSR)                       | *deprecated* | `lfsr_8bit`   |
| `lfsr_8bit`         | 8-bit linear feedback shift register (LFSR)                       | active       |               |
| `lfsr_16bit`        | 16-bit linear feedback shift register (LFSR)                      | active       |               |
| `lfsr`              | 4...64-bit parametric Galois LFSR with optional whitening feature | active       |               |
| `max_counter`       | Up/down counter with variable delta that tracks its maximum value | active       |               |
| `mv_filter`         | **ZARUBAF ADD DESCRIPTION**                                       | active       |               |

### Data Path Elements

| Name                         | Description                                                                    | Status         | Superseded By |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------- | :------------ |
| `addr_decode   `             | Address map decoder                                                            | active         |               |
| `ecc_decode`                 | SECDED Decoder (Single Error Correction, Double Error Detection)               | active         |               |
| `ecc_encode`                 | SECDED Encoder (Single Error Correction, Double Error Detection)               | active         |               |
| `binary_to_gray`             | Binary to gray code converter                                                  | active         |               |
| `find_first_one`             | Leading-one finder / leading-zero counter                                      | *deprecated*   | `lzc`         |
| `gray_to_binary`             | Gray code to binary converter                                                  | active         |               |
| `lzc`                        | Leading/trailing-zero counter                                                  | active         |               |
| `onehot_to_bin`              | One-hot to binary converter                                                    | active         |               |
| `shift_reg`                  | Shift register for arbitrary types                                             | active         |               |
| `rr_arb_tree`                | Round-robin arbiter for req/gnt and vld/rdy interfaces with optional priority  | active         |               |
| `rrarbiter`                  | Round-robin arbiter for req/ack interface with look-ahead                      | *deprecated*   | `rr_arb_tree` |
| `prioarbiter`                | Priority arbiter arbiter for req/ack interface with look-ahead                 | *deprecated*   | `rr_arb_tree` |
| `fall_through_register`      | Fall-through register with ready/valid interface                               | active         |               |
| `spill_register`             | Register with ready/valid interface to cut all combinational interface paths   | active         |               |
| `stream_arbiter`             | Round-robin arbiter for ready/valid stream interface                           | active         |               |
| `stream_arbiter_flushable`   | Round-robin arbiter for ready/valid stream interface and flush functionality   | active         |               |
| `stream_demux`               | Ready/valid interface demultiplexer                                            | active         |               |
| `stream_join`                | Ready/valid handshake join multiple to one common                              | active         |               |
| `stream_mux`                 | Ready/valid interface multiplexer                                              | active         |               |
| `stream_register`            | Register with ready/valid interface                                            | active         |               |
| `stream_fork`                | Ready/valid fork                                                               | active         |               |
| `stream_fork_dynamic`        | Ready/valid fork, with selection mask for partial forking                      | active         |               |
| `stream_filter`              | Ready/valid filter                                                             | active         |               |
| `stream_delay`               | Randomize or delay ready/valid interface                                       | active         |               |
| `sub_per_hash`               | Substitution-permutation hash function                                         | active         |               |
| `popcount`                   | Combinatorial popcount (hamming weight)                                        | active         |               |

### Data Structures

| Name                 | Description                                     | Status         | Superseded By |
| :------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- | :------------- | :------------ |
| `cb_filter`          | Counting-Bloom-Filter with combinational lookup | active         |               |
| `fifo`               | FIFO register with upper threshold              | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `fifo_v2`            | FIFO register with upper and lower threshold    | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `fifo_v3`            | FIFO register with generic fill counts          | active         |               |
| `stream_fifo`        | FIFO register with ready/valid interface        | active         |               |
| `generic_fifo`       | FIFO register without thresholds                | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `generic_fifo_adv`   | FIFO register without thresholds                | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `sram`               | SRAM behavioral model                           | active         |               |
| `plru_tree`          | Pseudo least recently used tree                 | active         |               |
| `unread`             | Empty module to sink unconnected outputs into   | active         |               |


## Header Contents

This repository currently contains the following header files.

### RTL Register Macros

The header file `registers.svh` contains macros that expand to descriptions of registers.
To avoid misuse of `always_ff` blocks, only the following macros shall be used to describe sequential behavior.
The use of linter rules that flag explicit uses of `always_ff` in source code is encouraged.

|         Macro         |                            Arguments                            |                               Description                               |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <code>\`FF</code>     | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`                                     | Flip-flop with asynchronous active-low reset (implicit)                 |
| <code>\`FFAR</code>   | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arst_sig`              | Flip-flop with asynchronous active-high reset                           |
| <code>\`FFARN</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arstn_sig`             | Flip-flop with asynchronous active-low reset                            |
| <code>\`FFSR</code>   | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rst_sig`               | Flip-flop with synchronous active-high reset                            |
| <code>\`FFSRN</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rstn_sig`              | Flip-flop with synchronous active-low reset                             |
| <code>\`FFNR</code>   | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `clk_sig`                                     | Flip-flop without reset                                                 |
|                       |                                                                 |                                                                         |
| <code>\`FFL</code>    | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`                         | Flip-flop with load-enable and asynchronous active-low reset (implicit) |
| <code>\`FFLAR</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arst_sig`  | Flip-flop with load-enable and asynchronous active-high reset           |
| <code>\`FFLARN</code> | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arstn_sig` | Flip-flop with load-enable and asynchronous active-low reset            |
| <code>\`FFLSR</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rst_sig`   | Flip-flop with load-enable and synchronous active-high reset            |
| <code>\`FFLSRN</code> | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rstn_sig`  | Flip-flop with load-enable and synchronous active-low reset             |
| <code>\`FFLNR</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `clk_sig`                         | Flip-flop with load-enable without reset                                |
- *The name of the clock and reset signals for implicit variants is `clk_i` and `rst_ni`, respectively.*
- *Argument suffix `_sig` indicates signal names for present and next state as well as clocks and resets.*
- *Argument `rst_val` specifies the value literal to be assigned upon reset.*
- *Argument `load_ena` specifies the boolean expression that forms the load enable of the register.*

Commit message:

Add stream_to_mem, use memories w/o flow control in response to be used in streams

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pulp-platform/common_cells.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pulp-platform/common_cells)

# Common Cells Repository

Maintainer: Florian Zaruba <zarubaf@iis.ee.ethz.ch>

This repository contains commonly used cells and headers for use in various projects.

## Cell Contents

This repository currently contains the following cells, ordered by categories.
Please note that cells with status *deprecated* are not to be used for new designs and only serve to provide compatibility with old code.

### Clocks and Resets

|           Name          |                     Description                     |    Status    | Superseded By |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|
| `clk_div`               | Clock divider with integer divisor                  | active       |               |
| `clock_divider`         | Clock divider with configuration registers          | *deprecated* | `clk_div`     |
| `clock_divider_counter` | Clock divider using a counter                       | *deprecated* | `clk_div`     |
| `rstgen`                | Reset synchronizer                                  | active       |               |
| `rstgen_bypass`         | Reset synchronizer with dedicated test reset bypass | active       |               |

### Clock Domains and Asynchronous Crossings

|         Name         |                                   Description                                    |    Status    | Superseded By |
|----------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|
| `cdc_2phase`         | Clock domain crossing using two-phase handshake, with ready/valid interface      | active       |               |
| `cdc_fifo_2phase`    | Clock domain crossing FIFO using two-phase handshake, with ready/valid interface | active       |               |
| `cdc_fifo_gray`      | Clock domain crossing FIFO using a gray-counter, with ready/valid interface      | active       |               |
| `edge_detect`        | Rising/falling edge detector                                                     | active       |               |
| `edge_propagator`    | **ANTONIO ADD DESCRIPTION**                                                      | active       |               |
| `edge_propagator_rx` | **ANTONIO ADD DESCRIPTION**                                                      | active       |               |
| `edge_propagator_tx` | **ANTONIO ADD DESCRIPTION**                                                      | active       |               |
| `pulp_sync`          | Serial line synchronizer                                                         | *deprecated* | `sync`        |
| `pulp_sync_wedge`    | Serial line synchronizer with edge detector                                      | *deprecated* | `sync_wedge`  |
| `serial_deglitch`    | Serial line deglitcher                                                           | active       |               |
| `sync`               | Serial line synchronizer                                                         | active       |               |
| `sync_wedge`         | Serial line synchronizer with edge detector                                      | active       |               |

### Counters and Shift Registers

|         Name        |                   Description                                     |    Status    | Superseded By |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|---------------|
| `counter`           | Generic up/down counter with overflow detection                   | active       |               |
| `delta_counter`     | Up/down counter with variable delta and overflow detection        | active       |               |
| `generic_LFSR_8bit` | 8-bit linear feedback shift register (LFSR)                       | *deprecated* | `lfsr_8bit`   |
| `lfsr_8bit`         | 8-bit linear feedback shift register (LFSR)                       | active       |               |
| `lfsr_16bit`        | 16-bit linear feedback shift register (LFSR)                      | active       |               |
| `lfsr`              | 4...64-bit parametric Galois LFSR with optional whitening feature | active       |               |
| `max_counter`       | Up/down counter with variable delta that tracks its maximum value | active       |               |
| `mv_filter`         | **ZARUBAF ADD DESCRIPTION**                                       | active       |               |

### Data Path Elements

| Name                         | Description                                                                    | Status         | Superseded By |
| :--------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------- | :------------ |
| `addr_decode   `             | Address map decoder                                                            | active         |               |
| `ecc_decode`                 | SECDED Decoder (Single Error Correction, Double Error Detection)               | active         |               |
| `ecc_encode`                 | SECDED Encoder (Single Error Correction, Double Error Detection)               | active         |               |
| `binary_to_gray`             | Binary to gray code converter                                                  | active         |               |
| `find_first_one`             | Leading-one finder / leading-zero counter                                      | *deprecated*   | `lzc`         |
| `gray_to_binary`             | Gray code to binary converter                                                  | active         |               |
| `lzc`                        | Leading/trailing-zero counter                                                  | active         |               |
| `onehot_to_bin`              | One-hot to binary converter                                                    | active         |               |
| `shift_reg`                  | Shift register for arbitrary types                                             | active         |               |
| `rr_arb_tree`                | Round-robin arbiter for req/gnt and vld/rdy interfaces with optional priority  | active         |               |
| `rrarbiter`                  | Round-robin arbiter for req/ack interface with look-ahead                      | *deprecated*   | `rr_arb_tree` |
| `prioarbiter`                | Priority arbiter arbiter for req/ack interface with look-ahead                 | *deprecated*   | `rr_arb_tree` |
| `fall_through_register`      | Fall-through register with ready/valid interface                               | active         |               |
| `spill_register`             | Register with ready/valid interface to cut all combinational interface paths   | active         |               |
| `stream_arbiter`             | Round-robin arbiter for ready/valid stream interface                           | active         |               |
| `stream_arbiter_flushable`   | Round-robin arbiter for ready/valid stream interface and flush functionality   | active         |               |
| `stream_demux`               | Ready/valid interface demultiplexer                                            | active         |               |
| `stream_join`                | Ready/valid handshake join multiple to one common                              | active         |               |
| `stream_mux`                 | Ready/valid interface multiplexer                                              | active         |               |
| `stream_register`            | Register with ready/valid interface                                            | active         |               |
| `stream_fork`                | Ready/valid fork                                                               | active         |               |
| `stream_fork_dynamic`        | Ready/valid fork, with selection mask for partial forking                      | active         |               |
| `stream_filter`              | Ready/valid filter                                                             | active         |               |
| `stream_delay`               | Randomize or delay ready/valid interface                                       | active         |               |
| `stream_to_mem`              | Use memories without flow control for output data in streams.                  | active         |               |
| `sub_per_hash`               | Substitution-permutation hash function                                         | active         |               |
| `popcount`                   | Combinatorial popcount (hamming weight)                                        | active         |               |

### Data Structures

| Name                 | Description                                     | Status         | Superseded By |
| :------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- | :------------- | :------------ |
| `cb_filter`          | Counting-Bloom-Filter with combinational lookup | active         |               |
| `fifo`               | FIFO register with upper threshold              | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `fifo_v2`            | FIFO register with upper and lower threshold    | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `fifo_v3`            | FIFO register with generic fill counts          | active         |               |
| `stream_fifo`        | FIFO register with ready/valid interface        | active         |               |
| `generic_fifo`       | FIFO register without thresholds                | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `generic_fifo_adv`   | FIFO register without thresholds                | *deprecated*   | `fifo_v3`     |
| `sram`               | SRAM behavioral model                           | active         |               |
| `plru_tree`          | Pseudo least recently used tree                 | active         |               |
| `unread`             | Empty module to sink unconnected outputs into   | active         |               |


## Header Contents

This repository currently contains the following header files.

### RTL Register Macros

The header file `registers.svh` contains macros that expand to descriptions of registers.
To avoid misuse of `always_ff` blocks, only the following macros shall be used to describe sequential behavior.
The use of linter rules that flag explicit uses of `always_ff` in source code is encouraged.

|         Macro         |                            Arguments                            |                               Description                               |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <code>\`FF</code>     | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`                                     | Flip-flop with asynchronous active-low reset (implicit)                 |
| <code>\`FFAR</code>   | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arst_sig`              | Flip-flop with asynchronous active-high reset                           |
| <code>\`FFARN</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arstn_sig`             | Flip-flop with asynchronous active-low reset                            |
| <code>\`FFSR</code>   | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rst_sig`               | Flip-flop with synchronous active-high reset                            |
| <code>\`FFSRN</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rstn_sig`              | Flip-flop with synchronous active-low reset                             |
| <code>\`FFNR</code>   | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `clk_sig`                                     | Flip-flop without reset                                                 |
|                       |                                                                 |                                                                         |
| <code>\`FFL</code>    | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`                         | Flip-flop with load-enable and asynchronous active-low reset (implicit) |
| <code>\`FFLAR</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arst_sig`  | Flip-flop with load-enable and asynchronous active-high reset           |
| <code>\`FFLARN</code> | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `arstn_sig` | Flip-flop with load-enable and asynchronous active-low reset            |
| <code>\`FFLSR</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rst_sig`   | Flip-flop with load-enable and synchronous active-high reset            |
| <code>\`FFLSRN</code> | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `rst_val`, `clk_sig`, `rstn_sig`  | Flip-flop with load-enable and synchronous active-low reset             |
| <code>\`FFLNR</code>  | `q_sig`, `d_sig`, `load_ena`, `clk_sig`                         | Flip-flop with load-enable without reset                                |
- *The name of the clock and reset signals for implicit variants is `clk_i` and `rst_ni`, respectively.*
- *Argument suffix `_sig` indicates signal names for present and next state as well as clocks and resets.*
- *Argument `rst_val` specifies the value literal to be assigned upon reset.*
- *Argument `load_ena` specifies the boolean expression that forms the load enable of the register.*
